Network:A computer network is a digital telecommunications system that allows nodes to share resources.

Nodes:
We have a lot of nodes. We are going to see the most important ones:

Routers
Switches
Firewalls
Servers
Clients
Basic Network:
A basic network consists of 3 materials:

Two PCs
One cable
Some devices can act as either a client or a server depending on the situation.

Switches:
Switches have many interfaces, but they cannot connect directly to the internet. To connect two branches or access the internet, we need routers.

Ethernet:
Ethernet is a collection of network protocols.
We need these protocols because they provide an understandable language for the whole world.

Network Speed:
Network speed is measured in bits per second.
8 bits equals 1 byte.

In 2 routers, it is going to be a serial connection, so 1 byte goes like 1 bit at a time.
Base refers to baseband signaling.
The copper cables used in Ethernet standards are UTP cables.

UTP:

Unshielded (U): Means the wires have no metallic shield, so they are vulnerable to electrical interference.
Twisted (T): Protects against EMI (Electromagnetic Interference).
Pair: Means two cables are twisted together.
We have many cables with different pairs.
Some interfaces are not RJ-45, so we need SFP transceivers to use them correctly.

Fiber Optic Cables:
Fiber optic cables send light over glass. These cables have 4 outputs.

OSI Models (Open Systems Interconnection Model):
The OSI model has 7 layers:

Application
Presentation
Session
Transport
Network
Data Link
Physical
Application Layer:
This layer is closest to the end user (the client itself).
It interacts with software applications, for example, web browsers like Chrome or Firefox.

HTTP and HTTPS:
HTTPS is used to get this website and view it in the browser.
Layer 7 doesn’t include the applications themselves, like Chrome or Firefox, but rather the protocols that interact with the application, like HTTP or HTTPS.

Key tasks:

Identifying communication partners.
Synchronizing communication.
Presentation Layer:
The data in the application layer is in application format, and it needs to be translated into a different format to be sent over the network.
This layer’s job is to translate between application and network formats.
Application data is not readable for other layers, so we need to change the data type for the other layers.

Session Layer:
Controls dialogues between communicating hosts.
Establishes, manages, and terminates connections between local applications and remote applications.

Application, presentation, and session layers are typically handled by application developers, not network engineers.

Transport Layer:
Segments and reassembles data for communication between end hosts.
Breaks large pieces of data into smaller segments that can be sent more easily over the network and are less likely to cause transmission problems.

Layer 4 segments data and adds an L4 header to each segment.
Data + L4 header = Segment.

This layer is responsible for host-to-host communication.

Network Layer:
Provides connectivity between end hosts on different networks (outside of LAN).
Provides logical addressing (IP addresses) that work for their destination.
Enables path selection between source and destination.

Routers operate at Layer 3 and are Layer 3 devices.
After the network layer, our data looks like this:
Data + L4 header + L3 header = Packet.

The L3 header includes the source and destination IP addresses for the segment.

Data Link Layer:
In this layer, we add an L2 trailer to the packet. This is called a frame.

Key tasks:

Provides node-to-node connectivity and data transfer (PC to switch, switch to router, etc.).
Defines how data is formatted for transmission over a physical medium.
Detects and corrects physical layer errors.
Switches operate at Layer 2 and determine where to send data.

Physical Layer:
Defines the physical characteristics of the medium used to transfer data between devices (e.g., voltage levels, maximum transmission distance, etc.).
Digital bits are converted into electrical or radio signals.

TCP/IP Model:
The TCP/IP model has 4 layers:

Application
Transport
Internet
Link
